sl beta docs (#3705)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-architecture.md

---

> title: "dbt Semantic Layer product architecture"

Reviewer: Can we remove "product?" It feels like an extra word.
```suggestion
title: "dbt Semantic Layer architecture"
```

id: sl-architecture
description: "dbt Semantic Layer product architecture and related questions."

> sidebar_label: "Product architecture"

Reviewer: I think we can just use Architecture in the sidebar for simplicity.
```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Architecture"
```

tags: [Semantic Layer]
---

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.6">

> At a high level, the dbt Semantic Layer allows you to define metrics and query them using various interfaces. The Semantic Layer does the heavy lifting to find where the queried data exists in your data platform and generates the SQL to make the request (including performing joins). This is possible with the following components:

Reviewer: Can we remove "at a high level"? I also got caught up with what we were using various interfaces for (I originally thought it was to query and to define metrics until I read the API description!) Let me know how this rewrite reads!
```suggestion
The dbt Semantic Layer allows you to define metrics and use various interfaces to query them. The Semantic Layer does the heavy lifting to find where the queried data exists in your data platform and generates the SQL to make the request (including performing joins). The Semantic Layer includes these components:
```

> | Components | Information | Developer plans | Team plans | Enterprise plans | License |

Reviewer: This table look awesome! Very clear & helpful!

| --- | --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | --- |

> | **[MetricFlow](/docs/build/about-metricflow)** | MetricFlow in dbt allows users to centrally define their semantic models and metrics with the YAML specifications. | ✅ | ✅ |  ✅  | BSL package (code is source available) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **[MetricFlow](/docs/build/about-metricflow)** | MetricFlow in dbt allows users to centrally define their semantic models and metrics with YAML specifications. | ✅ | ✅ |  ✅  | BSL package (code is source available) |
```

---
title: "dbt Semantic Layer product architecture"
id: sl-architecture
description: "dbt Semantic Layer product architecture and related questions."
sidebar_label: "Product architecture"
---

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.6">

At a high level, the dbt Semantic Layer has two primary components -- defining your metrics in MetricFlow and querying them with Semantic Layer APIs. These are made possible by the following architechtural pieces:

| Components | Information | Developer plans | Team plans | Enterprise plans | License |
| --- | --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | --- |
| **[MetricFlow](/docs/build/about-metricflow)** | Use MetricFlow in dbt to centrally define your metrics. MetricFlow is a key component of the dbt Semantic Layer and is responsible for SQL query construction and defining specifications for dbt semantic models and metrics. | ✅ | ✅ |  ✅  | BSL package (code is source available) |

> | **MetricFlow Server**| A proprietary server that takes metric requests and generates and translates them to optimized SQL for the specific data platform| ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | Proprietary, Cloud (Team & Enterprise)|

Reviewer 2: Open question.. should we add something about the metricflow CLI or can we just mention it as a part of metricFlow? @Jstein77

Reviewer 2: I added a generic API section
